When implementing a
deep neural network,
one of the debugging
tools I often
use to check the
correctness of my code
is to pull a piece
of paper and just
work through the dimensions
in matrix I'm working with.
Let me show you how to do
that since I hope this
will make it easier for you
to implement your deep
networks as well.
So capital L is equal to 5.
I counted them quickly.
Not counting the input layer,
there are five layers here,
four hidden layers
and one output layer.
If you implement
forward propagation,
the first step will be Z1 equals
W1 times the input
features x plus b1.
Let's ignore the bias terms B
for now and focus on
the parameters W. Now,
this first hidden layer
has three hidden units.
So this is Layer 0,
Layer 1, Layer 2, Layer 3,
Layer 4, and Layer 5.
Using the notation we had
from the previous video,
we have that n1, which is
the number of hidden
units in layer 1,
is equal to 3.
Here we would have
that n2 is equal to 5,
n3 is equal to 4,
n4 is equal to 2,
and n5 is equal to 1.
So far we've only seen
neural networks with
a single output unit,
but in later courses
we'll talk about
neural networks with multiple
output units as well.
Finally, for the input layer,
we also have n0 equals
nX is equal to 2.
Now, let's think about the
dimensions of Z, W, and X.
Z is the vector of activations
for this first hidden layer.
So Z is going to be 3 by 1,
is going to be a
three-dimensional vector.
I'm going to write it as, n1
by one-dimensional matrix,
3 by 1 in this case.
Now, how about the
input features x?
X we have two input features.
So x is, in this example,
2 by 1, but more generally
it'll be n0 by 1.
What we need is for the
matrix W1 to be something
that when we multiply an
n0 by 1 vector to it,
we get an n1 by 1 vector.
So you have a
three-dimensional vector
equals something times a
two-dimensional vector.
By the rules of matrix
multiplication,
this has got to be
a 3 by 2 matrix.
Because a 3 by 2
matrix times a 2 by
1 matrix or times
a 2 by 1 vector,
that gives you a 3 by 1 vector.
More generally,
this is going to be
an n1 by n0 dimensional matrix.
So what we figured out here
is that the dimensions of W1
has to be n1 by n0,
and more generally,
the dimensions of
WL must be nL by nL minus 1.
For example, the
dimensions of W2,
for this, it will
have to be 5 by 3,
or it will be n2 by n1,
because we're going
to compute Z2
as W2 times a1.
Again, let's ignore
the bias for now.
This is going to be 3 by 1.
We need this to be 5 by 1.
So this had better be 5 by 3.
Similarly, W3 is really the
dimension of the next layer,
the dimension of
the previous layer.
So this is going to be 4 by 5.
W4 is going to
be 2 by 4,
and W5 is going to be 1 by 2.
The general formula to
check is that when you're
implementing the
matrix for a layer L,
that the dimension of that
matrix be nL by nL minus 1.
Now, let's think about the
dimension of this vector B.
This is going to be
a 3 by 1 vector,
so you have to add
that to another 3 by
1 vector in order to get a 3
by 1 vector as the output.
This was going to be 5 by 1,
so there's going to be
another 5 by 1 vector
in order for the sum
of these two things that
I have in the boxes to
be itself a 5 by 1 vector.
The more general rule is that
in the example on the left,
b^[1] is n^[1] by 1,
like this 3 by 1.
In the second example,
it is this is n^[2] by 1 and so
the more general
case is that b^[l]
should be n^[l]
by 1 dimensional.
Hopefully, these two
equations help you to
double-check that the
dimensions of your matrices,
w, as well as of
your vectors b are the
correct dimensions.
Of course, if you're
implementing back-propagation,
then the dimensions of
dw should be the
same as dimension of
w. So dw should be the
same dimension as w,
and db should be the
same dimension as b.
Now, the other key
set of quantities
whose dimensions to
check are these z,
x, as well as a of l,
which we didn't talk
too much about here.
But because z of l is
equal to g of a of l,
apply element-wise then z and
a should have the same dimension
in these types of networks.
Now, let's see what
happens when you have
a vectorized implementation that
looks at multiple
examples at a time.
Even for a vectorized
implementation, of course,
the dimensions of w,
b, dw, and db will
stay the same.
But the dimensions of za,
as well as x, will change a bit
in your vectorized
implementation.
Previously we had z^[1] equals
w^[1] times x plus b^]1],
where this was n^[1] by 1.
This was n^[1] by n^[0],
x was n^[0] by 1,
and b was n^[1] by 1.
Now, in a vectorized
implementation,
you would have z^[1] equals
w^[1] times x plus b^[1].
Where now z^[1] is obtained by
taking the z^[1] for the
individual examples.
So there's z^[1][1],
z^[1][2] up to z^[1][m] and
stacking them as follows
and this gives you z^[1].
The dimension of z^[1] is that
instead of being n^[1] by 1,
it ends up being n^[1] by m,
if m is decisive training set.
The dimensions of
w^[1] stays the same
so is the n^[1] by n^[0] and
x instead of being n^[0] by
1 is now all your training
examples stamped horizontally,
so it's now n^[0] by m. You
notice that when you take a,
n^[1] by n^[0] matrics and
multiply that by an
n^[0] by m matrics
that together they
actually give you an
n^[1] by m dimensional
matrics as expected.
Now the final detail is that
b^[1] is still n^[1] by 1.
But when you take
this and add it to b,
then through python broadcasting
this will get duplicated
into an n^[1] by m matrics
and then added element-wise.
On the previous slide,
we talked about the
dimensions of w,
b, dw, and db.
Here what we see is
that whereas z^[l],
as well as a^[l],
are of dimension n^[l] by 1,
we have now instead
that capital Z^[l],
as well as capital A^[l],
are n^[l] by m.
A special case of this
is when l is equal to 0,
in which case A^[0],
which is equal to
just your training
set input features x is going
to be equal to n^[0]
by m as expected.
Of course, when you're
implementing this in
back-propagation,
we'll see later you end up
computing dz as well as da.
This way, of course, has the
same dimension as z and a.
Hope the low exercise
went through helps
clarify the dimensions of
the various matrices
you'll be working with.
When you implement
back-propagation
for a deep neural network,
so long as you work through
your code and make sure that
all the matrices or
dimensions are consistent,
that will usually
help you go some ways
towards eliminating some
class of possible bugs.
I hope that exercise
for figuring out
the dimensions of
the various matrices
you'd be working
with is helpful.
When you implement a deep neural
network if you keep straight
the dimensions of
these various matrices
and vectors you're working with,
hopefully, that will
help you eliminate
some class of possible bugs.
It certainly helps me
get my code right.
Next, we've now seen
some of the mechanics of
how to do the forward
propagation in a neural network.
But why are deep neural
networks so effective and
why do they do better than
shallow representations?
Let's spend a few minutes in
the next video to discuss.